Puppet Classes
"Resources are the fundamental unit for modeling system configurations. They're like building
blocks. Think 'Lego'. Each resource describes some aspect of a system, like a service that must
be running or a package that must be installed. The block of code that describes a resource is
called a resource declaration. Resources can be combined together to represent the desired
configuration of your system. And order doesn't matter."
"Classes define a collection of resources that are managed together as a single unit. Stated
another way, package, file, and service are individual Puppet resources bundled together to
define a single idea or class. Class definitions are contained in manifests. A class contains all of
its resources. This means, any relationship formed with the class as a whole will be extended to
every resource in the class."
"The general form of a class definition is: the class keyword; the name of the class; and while
the following is outside the scope of this course, it is important that you are aware of other
information that you might find in a class definition."
"After the class name, before the opening curly brace, you might find an optional set of
parameters which consist of: an opening parenthesis; a comma separated list of parameters; ,
each of which consists of a new variable name including the dollar sign prefix, an optional equal
sign, and a default value; an optional trailing comma might be found after the last parameter,
and a closing parenthesis. Also, you might find the inherit keyword, followed by a single class
name. After these optional parameters, there is an opening curly brace followed by a block of
Puppet code, which generally contains at least one resource declaration. These are the
resources you're defining that will be managed as a single unit. And then you'll find a closing
curly brace."
"Let's look at two important aspects of the behavior of a class. First is the definition. To define a
class is to specify the contents and behavior of a class. Defining a class doesn't automatically
include it in a configuration. It simply makes it available to be declared. Declaring a class adds a
resource to the catalog, and tells Puppet to manage that resource's state. When Puppet applies
the compiled catalog, it will read the actual state of the resource on the target system, compare
the actual state to the desired state, and if necessary, change the system to enforce the desired
state."
"After defining a class, you must declare the class in order to use it in your systems
configuration. Declaring a class directs Puppet to include or instantiate a given class. To declare
a class, use the include keyword or the syntax that you see on your screen, where class
followed by an open curly brace, the name of the class in double quotes, followed by a colon,
closing curly brace, also declare a class."
"If a more complex deployment is needed, reusing existing classes saves effort and reduces
error. Classes are reusable and singleton. Classes are reusable in that they can be used across
multiple nodes. However, classes must be unique and once declared, classes can not be
redeclared."
"Multiple classes can be declared together to represent a role. This is a node definition, which
represents the agent machine and the classes that compose its Puppet configuration. More
specifically, we're building a web application from Puppet classes on site.example.com., and
declaring that the ssh, apache, mysql, and web-app classes be included in Puppet's
management of this node."
"In summary, the core of the Puppet language is the resource declaration. A resource
declaration describes a desired state for one resource. Resources are then combined into single
units called classes. Once classes are defined, they must be declared in order for Puppet to
manage the associated resources. And as you will see in later courses, a manifest will hold
these class definitions as well as other logic for Puppet to use."
